>> Richard Feldman: So
we've seen this different syntax,
but we haven't really
seen what the benefit is.
So so far we've seen some of the costs
of Elm, you have to learn a new syntax,
but we haven't really seen
any of the benefits yet.
So let's talk about those briefly.
So in JavaScript let's say we
write our pluralized function,
and we say pluralize "leaf",
"leaves" in one, it works out.
If we say pluralize "leaf", "leaves" in 3
it again gives us the correct answer, but
now let's see we make a mistake.
So instead of returning singular,
we return singula.
That's a mistake.
Singula is not a thing.
That doesn't exist.
So, what's gonna happen if we do this?
Well, if say pluralize leaf leaves in 3,
nothing's gonna happen.
It's still gonna work because by
coincidence we didn't happen the traverse
the path that led to the bug.
If, on the other hand, we say pluralized
leaf leaves in one, it's not gonna work.
What's gonna happen is we're
gonna get a runtime exception.
Uncaught reference error.
Singula is not defined.
Which, yeah, okay, fair enough.
Indeed it is not defined.
So this would be an example of a crash.
Not really what we want to give our
users in terms of user experience.
Now typescript will do
a little bit better than that.
If in typescript if we write
the same code, we'll get an error.
So error TS2552, cannot find name singula,
did you mean singular?
So, it identifies at compile time,
this is a mistake you made.
I know that there's nothing
named singula in scope here, so
you need to fix that before we will
compile the program and actually run it.
How about Elm?
If we make the same mistake in Elm,
we say singula instead of singular
in the first branch of our if.
Similar kind of thing.
Cannot find variables singular, maybe
you want one of the following singular.
So again this is much like type script Elm
is able to catch this at compile time and
prevent that run time exception.
Okay let's look at a different error.
Let's say in JavaScript say if
quantity triple equals the string one.
Now when we say pluralize leaf
leaves in three, it still works.
Pluralize leaf leaves in 1
now it's back to the original
broken case where things are not
working properly anymore.
So these is also not what we want,
the whole reason we wrote these function
was to avoid these edge
case bug from happening.
And here we've made a mistake
that is still going to
result in that bug being present, okay.
So the root of that problem by
the way is that one, the string one,
when compared with triple equals
to the number one returns false.
Those are not considered to be
the same thing in JavaScript.
And in Typescript, same thing.
This will compile, this will run,
it just won't work properly.
We will still has this bug
materialize at runtime.
What about a Elm?
With Elm, this actually won't compile.
It'll say, the 3rd argument to function
pluralize is causing a mismatch.
That is to say,
when we're calling pluralize up here,
the 3rd argument is causing a mismatch.
Function pluralize is expecting
the 3rd argument to be a string, but
it is a number.
So essentially Elm was able to figure out,
you know what this is gonna be a bug.
If we write this expression,
this is always going to fail.
Something is off there.
I'm gonna tell you about
it at compile time and
ask that you fix it before you
actually run this application.
The way that Elm's able to do this is
using what's called type inference.
So it essentially knows about all
the types that are in your program.
By doing a process of sorting of with some
facts that it knows, one is a number,
leaves is a string and
then going through and
figuring out implications of those facts,
so it says okay.
While seated,
you're comparing quantity to a string.
Which means quantity must be string, but
here I see that you're calling it passing
1 for quantity which is a number.
So how can it be both a string and number?
Something is off,
I'm gonna tell you about that.
That's an error of compile time.
Elm does type inference across everything.
And I do mean everything.
So there's no any type like
there is in TypeScript.
There's no escape hatch where you can say,
trust me, I know what I'm doing.
Elm's compiler really does do type
inference across 100% of every single
value in your entire Elm program, and all
of the packages in the entire ecosystem.
This is how we're able to
avoid runtime exceptions.
Fundamentally, it's
the combination of Elm's
insistence on doing type inference
across absolutely everything.
And the way that
the libraries are designed,
which we'll learn about through
the course of the workshop.
This prevents this from happening.
So yes, there is some new syntax to learn.
There is some different
concepts to master.
But ultimately,
the guarantees that this provides, and
the reliability that results from
that is a pretty serious benefit.